BRIEF INSTRUCTIONS:

Welcome to Metro!
When you start the game by running the Driver class, you will be prompted to enter you selection of GUI or TUI in the console, 
then to enter the desired number of players, followed by each player's name individually, and finally, if a saved game exists 
based on the player names you entered, whether you want to load a saved game or start a new one.  At the start of the game, you 
will see the current scores of each player, which player's turn it is, the tile the current player has drawn, and the current 
board.

There are 8 commands that are typed into the console to play the game.
 place(x,y)
 remove
 commit
 resign
 display score
 display player
 display tile
 display board
 save

The goal of the game is to make the longest tracks possible.  At the start of your turn, you place your tile on the 12x12 board
using "place(x,y)", replacing x and y with the desired coordinates of your placement, with x increasing from 1 in the far left 
column to 12 in the far right column and y increasing from 1 in the top row to 12 in the bottom row.  You cannot place tiles on
the center station area (locations (6,6),(6,7),(7,6), or (7,7)).  A track is complete when it starts from an Outgoing station and
ends at an Incoming station.  Score points are awarded when a track is completed, with one point for each tile the track covers 
before returning to an Incoming station.  This includes tiles that are crossed more than once.  If a track ends at a center 
Incoming station, the player whose Outgoing station starts the track will get double the amount of points that track is worth. 
(for instance, if the track length is 5 tiles and it ends at an Incoming center station, the track is worth 10 points to the 
player whose outgoing station starts it) Outgoing stations of each player are are represented by the letters A, B, C,...,H, with 
A corresponding to Player 1's stations, B corresponding to Player 2's stations, and so on.  Incoming stations are represented by 
the arrows ^,>,v,<.  The Center station has four unowned Outgoing stations, represented by #. (Note, in games of 5 and 7 players, 
there will be unowned Outgoing stations along the left border, represented by #)  The numbers on the tiles represent how the tile 
tracks connect (1 connects to 1, 2 connects to 2,...).  
You may not place tiles in locations that create complete tracks of only one tile length.  This means if you have a tile with a 
track connection on one side (a tile with 11 in the top row) you cannot place this tile in a border location.  However, if no 
other moves are available, this move is allowed and the respective player who's outgoing station connects to an incoming one will 
get 1 point.  Use the "remove" command to remove a placed tile on the board. If the tile is in an illegal location, you will be 
forced to remove it before continuing game play. When you are satisfied with your tile placement, type the "commit" command to end 
your turn and calculate the current score based on any completed tracks on the board.  If a player uses the "resign" command, 
their score is set to zero, the game ends, and the other player(s) win(s), even if the other player(s) also have a score of zero 
as well.  When the last of the 140 tiles is placed and committed, the game automatically ends and the winner, the player with the 
highest score, or a draw, is declared.  To display the current player scores, who's turn it is, which tile the current player 
must place, and the current board configuration, type the following respective commands: "display score", "display player", 
"display tile", "display board".  To save a game, simply type the command: "save".  This will save your current game.  To load the
game later on, just enter the same player names as were playing in your saved game when asked and then select the "1. Game" file
when prompted.  If you are using the GUI panel, these methods may be called in a similar manner by clicking on the respective
buttons and entering the applicable information, if prompted to do so.
Good luck and have fun!


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FULL INSTRUCTIONS:


Let's take a ride on the METRO!

Number of Players: 2-8

Hello there, and welcome to the wonderful world of Metro!
The Parisian Transport Construction team is busy building a new, state-of-the-art train system, 
and we're glad you've decided to be a part of it!
Let's get this train on its tracks!
ALL ABOARD!



GAME COMPONENTS:
	
	Game board:
	The Game board is laid out in the following manner:
	

  A^  B^  A^  B^  A^  B^  A^  B^  A^  B^  A^  B^  
                                                  
<                                                A
B                                                >
                                                  
                                                  
<                                                B
A                                                >
                                                  
                                                  
<                                                A
B                                                >
                                                  
                                                  
<                                                B
A                                                >
                                                  
                                                  
<                                                A
B                                                >
                                                  
                      v#  v#                      
<                    #      <                    B
A                    >      #                    >
                                                  
                                                  
<                    #      <                    A
B                    >      #                    >
                      #^  #^                      
                                                  
<                                                B
A                                                >
                                                  
                                                  
<                                                A
B                                                >
                                                  
                                                  
<                                                B
A                                                >
                                                  
                                                  
<                                                A
B                                                >
                                                  
                                                  
<                                                B
A                                                >
                                                  
  vB  vA  vB  vA  vB  vA  vB  vA  vB  vA  vB  vA  
	
	
	The Letters A through H represent players' outgoing stations.  A corresponds to Player 1's Outgoing stations, 
	B corresponds to Player 2's, and so on.  The # symbols represent unowned Outgoing stations.  If you are playing with 
	5 or 7 players, some of the Outgoing stations along the left border will be unowned and represented with a #.
	Incoming stations are represented by the arrows ^,>,v,<.
	
	Tiles:
	This game has 6 of each of 24 different tiles (144 Total). (However, since the board only contains 140 spaces, 4 tiles 
	will not be played each game.)  They are presented as:
	
	 31     32     34     33   
	2  2   3  2   1  2   4  2
	4  4   4  1   4  3   4  2
	 31  ,  41  ,  21  ,  11  , ...
	
	These tiles represent the tracks you are building.  Each tile holds four sections of track.  The numbers represent
	where the tracks connect (1 to 1, 2 to 2,...) and the side they are on represents the direction they point
	(top numbers connect upwards, numbers on the left column lead to the left...).  The tiles are shuffled before each
	new game and the current player draws one tile  for placing on the board at the start of their turn.
	
PLAYING THE GAME:

		To start a new game, run the driver class of the project.
		You will be prompted to enter the following information:
		-Whether you want to play GUI or TUI
		-The Number of Players
		-Each player's name
		-If you have a saved game with the same player names as you currently entered, you will have the option
			of loading that game or starting a new one.
			
		At the start of the game you will see:	
		-Each player's current score
		-Who's turn it is
		-the tile the current player must place
		-The empty board
		
		The game is played by typing commands into the console. You must type these commands exactly as you see
		them listed here.  If you selected GUI, the commands can be carried out in a similar manner by clicking on the 
		respective buttons and entering the applicable information, if prompted to do so.
		
			place(x,y)
			
				This command places your tile on the board, so long as there is no tile already there and you have
				not already placed your tile during your turn.
				Tiles are placed in a 12 x 12 grid, laid out as:
			
				  x-> 
				y    (1,1)  (2,1)  (3,1)  (4,1) ... (12,1)
				|                                 
				V    (1,2)  (2,2)  (3,2)  (4,2)
				
				     (1,3)  (2,3)  (3,3)  (4,3)
				
				     (1,4)  (2,4)  (3,4)  (4,4)
				     
				     ...                        ...
				     
				     (1,12)                         (12,12)
				
				Place your tile by typing "place(x,y)" replacing x and y with the coordinates you desire.
				If you place a tile in an illegal spot, you will be told this, but your tile will temporarily be added
				to the board. You must use the remove command to withdraw your tile so it can be placed somewhere else.
				
			remove
				
				If you have placed a tile and want to change its location or you placed it in an illegal position
				you can remove it from the board using this command.
					
			commit
				
				If you are happy with your tile placement and your play is legal, type this command to finalize it.
				This ends your turn, along with a display of the current game statistics.
				If you place the last tile on the board, the game will end and the winner will be announced.
				
			resign
				
				When this command is typed, the current player resigns from the game.
				
			display score
			
				Displays the current scores of each player's tracks that have already been committed.
				
			display player
			
				Displays which player's turn it is currently.
				
			display tile
			
				Displays the current player's tile.
				
			display board
			
				Displays the current board, including tiles that may have been placed illegally and need to be removed.		
			
RULES:			
		
		Tiles must be placed in locations that will not make tracks of only one tile length, unless no other placement
		will allow otherwise.  This means you cannot place a tile that connects an outgoing station to an incoming station,
		regardless of which player owns each station, unless you cannot place the tile anywhere else on the board.  When an
		illegal tile placement is made, the player will be notified of this an they will have to call the remove command to 
		withdraw their tile from the board.  Tiles also cannot be placed where a tile already exists on the board and 
		players cannot place a tile twice in their turn without first removing it.  Players will be told when they attempt
		to do so.
		
		Scores are calculated and added to each player's running total when a track that starts from one of their outgoing stations
		is completed by ending at an incoming station.  One point is awarded for each tile the track traverses before returning
		to another station, including tiles that are crossed more than once.  Tracks that end in center incoming stations are worth
		double the points.
		
		The game ends when all 140 tiles have been placed on the board.  The player who has the greatest total of track
		lengths is the winner.  If multiple players have an equal score, a draw is declared.
		
		At any time, the current player may resign during their turn.  This means the resigning player automatically
		receives a score of zero, and the other player(s) win(s), even if the other player(s) have a score of zero as well.
		
Good luck constructing Paris' best railway transportation system ever! HAVE FUN!		
